doc: include documentation about building samples from command line (#1677)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: doc/nrf/gs_programming.rst

   	In a multi-image build, this allows you to debug the source code of your application only.

If you get an error that a tool or command cannot be found, first make sure that the tool is installed.
If it is installed, verify that its location is correct in the PATH variable or, if applicable, in the SES settings.

.. _gs_programming_cmd:

> Building with Command line

Author: Changed.

**************************

> Complete the following steps to build |NCS| projects with command line after completing the :ref:`command line build environment setup for Windows<build_environment_cli_win>` or the :ref:`command line build environment setup for Linux<build_environment_cli_linux>` for Windows and Linux environments respectively.

Author: Changed.

1.    Open a terminal window.

#.    Go to the samples or applications directory depending on whether you are building a sample or an application:

      .. code-block:: console

         cd nrf/samples
         cd nrf/applications

      .. note::

>          All the samples corresponding to the nRF9160 DK board are located at :file:`samples/nrf9160`.

Author: Changed.

#.    Build the sample or application using the west command.

>       The development board is specified by the parameter ``board_name``, and the sample or application directory is specified by the parameter ``directory_name`` in the west command as follows:

Reviewer: Variables (like board_name and directory_name) should be in italics: *board_name* (both here where they are introduced and in the code block).
This makes it clearer that they must be replaced in the command.

To make the italics work in the code block below, replace ".. code-block:: console" with:
   .. parsed-literal::
&nbsp;&nbsp;      :class: highlight

Author: Updated.

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -b board_name directory_name

      See `Board names <Board names_>`_ for more information on the development boards.
      To reuse an existing build directory for building another sample or application for another board, pass ``-p=auto`` to ``west build``.

>       After running the ``west build`` command, the build files are generated in ``build/zephyr``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      After running the ``west build`` command, the build files can be found in ``build/zephyr``.
```

They are generated **while** running west build ;)

>       For more information on the contents of the build directory, see `Zephyr documentation on Build Directory Contents`_.

Reviewer: I see Bartek has asked you to change that reference - but we shouldn't link between doc sets with such absolute links. This will not work locally, and it will be confusing for the documentation for a release (because you will suddenly end up in the latest documentation instead of the release).
Change this back to "the *Build Directory Contents* section in the Zephyr documentation on :ref:`zephyr:build_an_application`" for now, and we should make a PR to Zephyr to add an ID where we need it so we can link directly.

Author: Changed this back.

      .. include:: gs_programming.rst
         :start-after: .. imp_note_nrf91_start
         :end-before: .. imp_note_nrf91_end

#.    Connect the development board to your PC using a USB cable.
#.    Power on the development board.

> #.    Program the sample or application to the board from the build directory using the following command:

Reviewer: Should we tell people to navigate to the build directory ("cd build") first? Or will it work if this command is issued from the application directory?

Author: According to the Zephyr documentation the command is run from the build directory. https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/zephyr/application/index.html?#running-on-a-board.
But **west flash** works for me from the sample/application directory as well.
 I think then, we need not point out 'navigating to the build directory' as a requirement here. @pdunaj Any thoughts on this?

      .. code-block:: console

         west flash

#.    Reset the board to start the sample or application.

> For more information on building and programming using command line, see the Zephyr documentation on :ref:`zephyr:west-build-flash-debug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on building and programming using the command line, see the Zephyr documentation on :ref:`zephyr:west-build-flash-debug`.
```

Author: Updated.

.. _gs_programming_board_names:

Board names
***********

> 

Reviewer: Give a short intro here, for example:
You can find the board names for the different development boards in the :ref:`zephyr:boards` section in the Zephyr documentation.
For your convenience, the following table lists the board names for Nordic Semiconductor's development kits:

Author: Added the intro.

.. _table:

+-------------------+---------------------------------------------------+

> | Development Boards| Board names                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Development kits| Board names                                       |
```

Author: Updated.

> +===================+===================================================+

Reviewer: I suggest to use the official kit names here (as we have them in the shortcuts.txt file), and link to the respective Zephyr pages. So for example :ref:`nRF51 DK board (PCA10028)<zephyr:nrf51_pca10028>`.

Author: Modified.

| nRF51-PCA10028    | nrf51_pca10028                                    |
+-------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
| nRF52-PCA10040    | nrf52_pca10040                                    |
+-------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
| nRF52840-PCA10056 | nrf52840_pca10056                                 |
+-------------------+---------------------------------------------------+

> | nRF5340           | nrf5340_dk_nrf5340_cpunet for network sample,     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| nRF5340           | nrf5340_dk_nrf5340_cpunet (for the network sample)     |
```

Author: Updated.

+                   +                                                   +

> |                   | nrf5340_dk_nrf5340_cpuapp for application sample  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                   | nrf5340_dk_nrf5340_cpuapp (for the application sample)  |
```

Author: Removed the note on the samples/nrf9160.  Also removed the directory_name parameter and added information about this option in  a note.

+-------------------+---------------------------------------------------+

> | nRF9160-PCA10090  | nrf9160_pca10090 for secure version,              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| nRF9160-PCA10090  | nrf9160_pca10090 (for the secure version)              |
```

Author: Modified.

+                   +                                                   +

> |                   | nrf9160_pca10090ns for non-secure version         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                   | nrf9160_pca10090ns (for the non-secure version)         |
```

Author: Updated.

   	In a multi-image build, this allows you to debug the source code of your application only.

If you get an error that a tool or command cannot be found, first make sure that the tool is installed.
If it is installed, verify that its location is correct in the PATH variable or, if applicable, in the SES settings.

.. _gs_programming_cmd:

Building with Command line
**************************

> Complete the following steps to build |NCS| projects with command line after completing the :ref:`command line build environment setup for windows<build_environment_cli_win>` or the :ref:`command line build environment setup for linux<build_environment_cli_linux>` for windows and linux environments respectively.

Reviewer 2: Windows and Linux should be capitalized.

> 1. Connect the development board to your PC using a USB cable.

Author: Re-arranged the steps.

#. Power on the development board.

#. Open a terminal window.

#. Go to the samples or applications directory depending on whether you are building a sample or an application:

   .. code-block:: console

      cd nrf/samples
      cd nrf/applications

   .. note::
      All the samples corresponding to the nRF9160 DK board are located at :file:`samples/nrf9160`.

#. Build the sample or application using the west command.
   The development board is specified by the parameter ``board_name``, and the sample or application directory is specified by the parameter ``directory_name`` in the west command as follows:

   .. code-block:: console

      west build -b board_name directory_name

   See `Board names <Board names_>`_ for more information on the development boards.

>    If an existing build directory has to be re-used for building another sample or application for another board, pass ``-p=auto`` to ``west build``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To reuse an existing build directory for building another sample or application for another board, pass ``-p=auto`` to ``west build``.
```

>    After running the ``west build`` command, we can see that the build files are generated at ``build/zephyr``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   After running the ``west build`` command, the build files are generated in ``build/zephyr``.
```

>    For more information on the contents of the build directory, see the *Build Directory Contents* section in the Zephyr documentation on :ref:`zephyr:build_an_application`.

Reviewer 2: *Build Directory Contents* could be a hyperlink instead.

Author: Changed to a hyper link.

.. _imp_note_nrf91:

.. include:: gs_programming.rst
   :start-after: imp_note_nrf91_start
   :end-before: imp_note_nrf91_end

> 6. Program the sample or application to the board from the build directory using the following command:

Author: Changed.

   	In a multi-image build, this allows you to debug the source code of your application only.

If you get an error that a tool or command cannot be found, first make sure that the tool is installed.
If it is installed, verify that its location is correct in the PATH variable or, if applicable, in the SES settings.

.. _gs_programming_cmd:

> Building on the Command line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building on the command line
```

Author: Changed.

****************************

> Complete the following steps to build |NCS| projects on the command line after completing the command-line build setup (see the instructions for :ref:`Windows<build_environment_cli_win>`, :ref:`Linux<build_environment_cli_linux>` or :ref:`macOS<build_environment_cli_mac>`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the following steps to build |NCS| projects on the command line after completing the command-line build setup (see the instructions for :ref:`Windows<build_environment_cli_win>`, :ref:`Linux<build_environment_cli_linux>`, or :ref:`macOS<build_environment_cli_mac>`).
```

Author: Added.

1.    Open a terminal window.

> #.    Go to the specific sample or application directory. For example, to build the :ref:`at_client_sample` sample, run the following command to navigate to the sample directory:

Reviewer: Line break ;)

      .. code-block:: console

         cd nrf/samples/nRF9160/at_client

#.    Build the sample or application using the west command.
      The development board is specified by the parameter *board_name* in the west command as follows:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         west build -b *board_name*

      .. note::

> 	     To build from a directory, other than the sample or application directory, run the west build command with an additional parameter *directory_name*,  specifying the sample or application directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	     To build from a directory other than the sample or application directory, run the west build command with an additional parameter *directory_name*,  specifying the sample or application directory.
```

1.    Open a terminal window.

#.    Go to the specific sample or application directory.
      For example, to build the :ref:`at_client_sample` sample, run the following command to navigate to the sample directory:

      .. code-block:: console

         cd nrf/samples/nRF9160/at_client

#.    Build the sample or application using the west command.
      The development board is specified by the parameter *board_name* in the west command as follows:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         west build -b *board_name*

      .. note::

	     To build from a directory other than the sample or application directory, run the west build command with an additional parameter *directory_name*,  specifying the sample or application directory.

      See `Board names <Board names_>`_ for more information on the development boards.
      To reuse an existing build directory for building another sample or application for another board, pass ``-p=auto`` to ``west build``.

> 

Reviewer 3: Should there be an additional chapter on configuring your application (i.e. running menuconfig) . 
West supports this by calling the command **west build -t menuconfig**?

I would link directly to this chapter in the documentation: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/kconfig/menuconfig.html (which also lists **west -t build menuconfig** as the command to run)

I don't think you can find documentation on configuring, by following build/zephyr...

Reviewer: We have a chapter about this here: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/gs_modifying.html#configuring-your-application
Is anything missing in there?

Reviewer 3: It is listed, but quite convoluted _or a tool like menuconfig or guiconfig to update it_

Reviewer: Remember that we are advocating for people to use SES. ;)

Author: We are linking to https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/kconfig/menuconfig.html from our chapter https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/gs_modifying.html#configuring-your-application.
 I think we can add some information here, about configuring application, as follows: 
If you want to configure your application, run the west command:
west build -t menuconfig. 
See :ref:`configure_application` for additional information about configuring an application.

      See `Board names <Board names_>`_ for more information on the development boards.
      To reuse an existing build directory for building another sample or application for another board, pass ``-p=auto`` to ``west build``.

      If you want to configure your application, run the following west command:

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -t menuconfig

      See :ref:`configure_application` for additional information about configuring an application.

      After running the ``west build`` command, the build files can be found in ``build/zephyr``.
      For more information on the contents of the build directory, see the *Build Directory Contents* section in the Zephyr documentation on :ref:`zephyr:build_an_application`.

      .. include:: gs_programming.rst
         :start-after: .. imp_note_nrf91_start
         :end-before: .. imp_note_nrf91_end

#.    Connect the development board to your PC using a USB cable.
#.    Power on the development board.
#.    Program the sample or application to the board using the following command:

      .. code-block:: console

         west flash

> #.    Reset the board to start the sample or application.

Reviewer 3: Additional note: If the board needs to be fully erased before programming the new app use `west flash --erase`

Also note `west flash` will reset the board automatically so no extra reset is required to start sample or application.

      See `Board names <Board names_>`_ for more information on the development boards.
      To reuse an existing build directory for building another sample or application for another board, pass ``-p=auto`` to ``west build``.

      If you want to configure your application, run the following west command:

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -t menuconfig

      See :ref:`configure_application` for additional information about configuring an application.

      After running the ``west build`` command, the build files can be found in ``build/zephyr``.
      For more information on the contents of the build directory, see the *Build Directory Contents* section in the Zephyr documentation on :ref:`zephyr:build_an_application`.

      .. include:: gs_programming.rst
         :start-after: .. imp_note_nrf91_start
         :end-before: .. imp_note_nrf91_end

#.    Connect the development board to your PC using a USB cable.
#.    Power on the development board.
#.    Program the sample or application to the board using the following command:

      .. code-block:: console

         west flash

>       If the board needs to be fully erased before programming the new sample or application, use the command: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      To fully erase the board before programming the new sample or application, use the command: 
```

Author: Modified.
